

What is Power BI?


Power BI is the collective name for an assortment of cloud-based apps and services that help organizations collate, manage, and analyze data from a variety of sources, through a user-friendly interface.

Business intelligence tools like Power BI can be used for a multitude of purposes. 

Primarily, Power BI pulls data together and processes it, turning it into intelligible insights, often using visually compelling and easy-to-process charts and graphs. This allows users to generate and share clear and useful snapshots of what’s happening in their business.

Power BI connects to a range of data sources, from basic Excel spreadsheets to databases, and both cloud-based and on-premise apps.



What does Power BI do?


Microsoft Power BI is used to run reports and surface insights based on a company’s data. Power BI can connect to a wide range of data sets, and “tidies up” the info it’s fed so that it can be better digested and understood. The reports and visuals generated from this data can then be shared with other users.

Power BI helps users see not only what’s happened in the past and what’s happening in the present, but also what might happen in the future. Power BI is infused with machine learning capabilities, meaning it can spot patterns in data and use those patterns to make informed predictions and run “what if” scenarios. These estimates allow users to generate forecasts, and prepare themselves to meet future demand and other key metrics.



Here are some of the key benefits of using Power BI:



Businesses can input huge quantities of data into Power BI that many other platforms would struggle to process
Built-in machine learning features can analyze data and help users spot valuable trends and make educated prediction
Information can be visualized using powerful templates to allow businesses to better make sense of their data
Power BI is cloud-based, so users get cutting edge intelligence capabilities and powerful algorithms that are updated regularly
Powerful personalization capabilities allow users to create dashboards so they can access the data they need quickly
Alerts can be set up on KPIs to keep users up to date important metrics and measurements.
Power BI has an intuitive interface that makes it far more user-friendly and easy to navigate then complex spreadsheets
The platform integrates with other popular business management tools like SharePoint, Office 365, and Dynamics 365, as well as other non-Microsoft products like Spark, Hadoop, Google Analytics, SAP, Salesforce, and MailChimp
With data security a massive talking point for modern businesses, Power BI ensures data is safe, offering granular controls on accessibility both internally and externally
